README.md, before:

# nuxeo-mule-connector

This is a Nuxeo Connector for Mule that is based on Automation API.

Using this connector, you can build Mule Flows that will use services exposed by Nuxeo Platform.

This connector exposes :

 - a predefined set of Operations
 - a runOperation that allows to call any Operation or Chain defined on the Nuxeo server
 - some converters from Nuxeo objects (Document, Documents, Blob) to raw types (Maps, List of Maps, File ...)

## Connector design

### Nuxeo Automation Client

The connector is build on top of nuxeo Java Automation Client.

The automation client handles authentication and network marshaling.

### Static connector vs dynamic Nuxeo API

Nuxeo API is highly dynamic since :

 - addons can provide additionnal Operations
 - new Operations or chains can be added via Nuxeo Studio, Java or scripting.

The Mule Connector architecture is static and as is can not expose all Nuxeo API.

This connector exposes :

 - a predefined set of Operations
     - createDocument
     - getDocument
     - update
     - ...
 - a runOperation that allows to call any Operation or Chain defined on the Nuxeo server
     - allows to leverage custom Operations or Chains contributed by addons
 - some converters from Nuxeo objects (Document, Documents, Blob) to raw types (Maps, List of Maps, File ...)
 - an event listener (@Source) that allows to make Mule listen to Nuxeo events
     - it uses long polling http to fetch events from Audit log

### DataSense

For now, Nuxeo Connector does not use DataSense.

DataSense seems to be designed to provide more info about objects returned by the API.

This could indeed make sense for Nuxeo.

However, this seems to be limited to Map type return type.

Inside Nuxeo, this does not match :

 - Document is a Java Object not a Map
 - but Document contains a Map of Map that contains the schemas and fields that are dynamic

This explains why for now it is not integrated.

## Nuxeo Connector vs CMIS Connector

Compared to a CMIS connector, Automation based Nuxeo connector allows full access to Nuxeo API :

 - CRUD on document repository
 - relations, tags, queries
 - workflows and tasks management
 - converters

but also

 - all the features that are not available via CMIS (complex properties, multi-blobs ...)
 - additional Custom Automation Operation (contributed via Nuxexo IDE)
 - additional Custom Automation Chains (contributed via Nuxeo Studio)

## Build and install

### Target Mule version

The connector uses the lastest Mule API, 3.5, since we use @Source.

### To build the plugin

Quick build

> mvn -Ddevkit.studio.package.skip=false -Ddevkit.javadoc.check.skip -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.test.skip=true clean package [-Djava7.home=/path/to/java7]

Build with tests

> mvn -Ddevkit.studio.package.skip=false clean package [-Djava7.home=/path/to/java7]

Then use the update site generated in target/update-site to load the plugin from MuleStudio

NB: You have to use Maven 3 and Java 6 (you can 'source' env.sh for that)
but the tests require Java 7 so you must also provide the path to the Java 7 if different than the default value (/usr/lib/jvm/jdk1.7.0_10).

### Update site

Our QA Chain does publish an update site based on the latest build :

http://qa.nuxeo.org/jenkins/job/nuxeo-mule-connector-master/lastStableBuild/artifact/target/update-site/

## Next steps

 - integrate OAuth support
 - extend list of build-in functions (code gen ?)

Commit message:

First level integration for DataSense : just for tasting

README.md, after:

# nuxeo-mule-connector

This is a Nuxeo Connector for Mule that is based on Automation API.

Using this connector, you can build Mule Flows that will use services exposed by Nuxeo Platform.

This connector exposes :

 - a predefined set of Operations
 - a runOperation that allows to call any Operation or Chain defined on the Nuxeo server
 - some converters from Nuxeo objects (Document, Documents, Blob) to raw types (Maps, List of Maps, File ...)

## Connector design

### Nuxeo Automation Client

The connector is build on top of nuxeo Java Automation Client.

The automation client handles authentication and network marshaling.

### Static connector vs dynamic Nuxeo API

Nuxeo API is highly dynamic since :

 - addons can provide additionnal Operations
 - new Operations or chains can be added via Nuxeo Studio, Java or scripting.

The Mule Connector architecture is static and as is can not expose all Nuxeo API.

This connector exposes :

 - a predefined set of Operations
     - createDocument
     - getDocument
     - update
     - ...
 - a runOperation that allows to call any Operation or Chain defined on the Nuxeo server
     - allows to leverage custom Operations or Chains contributed by addons
 - some converters from Nuxeo objects (Document, Documents, Blob) to raw types (Maps, List of Maps, File ...)
 - an event listener (@Source) that allows to make Mule listen to Nuxeo events
     - it uses long polling http to fetch events from Audit log

### DataSense

The connector include a first level (very naive) implementation of DataSense for Nuxeo.

As a start Nuxeo Document Types are mapped tp `MetaDataKey`.

The only operation that was made DataSense aware for now is : `updateds` that is bascially a DataSense aware copy of `update`.

About DataSense / Nuxeo mapping :

**Stream**

One specific type of Nuxeo field are `Blob`.

As a first reflex, Blob are mappoed to `DataType.STREAM` but this DataType is deprecated, not sure what the replacement must be ...

**Scalar vs Complex field**

Inside Nuxeo, a Document object is constituted of schemas, that contains fields.

The fields can be : 

 - scalar : String, Long, Date ...
 - List of scalar : List  of String, List of Date ...
 - Complex type : can be almost any complex type as defined in the XSD standard, basically it means that a field that can seen as a map of other fields with potentially a very deep nesting

For now, the current implementation does only address the first case : scalar fields ...

**Map vs Document**

DataSense seems seems to be limited to Map type return type.

Inside Nuxeo, this does not match :

 - Document is a Java Object not a Map
 - but Document contains a Map of Map that contains the schemas and fields that are dynamic


## Nuxeo Connector vs CMIS Connector

Compared to a CMIS connector, Automation based Nuxeo connector allows full access to Nuxeo API :

 - CRUD on document repository
 - relations, tags, queries
 - workflows and tasks management
 - converters

but also

 - all the features that are not available via CMIS (complex properties, multi-blobs ...)
 - additional Custom Automation Operation (contributed via Nuxexo IDE)
 - additional Custom Automation Chains (contributed via Nuxeo Studio)

## Build and install

### Target Mule version

The connector uses the lastest Mule API, 3.5, since we use @Source.

### To build the plugin

Quick build

> mvn -Ddevkit.studio.package.skip=false -Ddevkit.javadoc.check.skip -DskipTests=true -Dmaven.test.skip=true clean package [-Djava7.home=/path/to/java7]

Build with tests

> mvn -Ddevkit.studio.package.skip=false clean package [-Djava7.home=/path/to/java7]

Then use the update site generated in target/update-site to load the plugin from MuleStudio

NB: You have to use Maven 3 and Java 6 (you can 'source' env.sh for that)
but the tests require Java 7 so you must also provide the path to the Java 7 if different than the default value (/usr/lib/jvm/jdk1.7.0_10).

### Update site

Our QA Chain does publish an update site based on the latest build :

http://qa.nuxeo.org/jenkins/job/nuxeo-mule-connector-master/lastStableBuild/artifact/target/update-site/

## Next steps

 - integrate OAuth support
 - extend list of build-in functions (code gen ?)
